sdsNASA: First Woman was the second project I had the opportunity to work on at Bully.

Our team took on the project in close partnership with the team at NASA, and the goal was to excite the next generation of space explorers!

Since the app launched, millions of people from around the world interacted with our project.
In 2022, our team won the Webby Award for Best Integrated Mobile Experience, and we were featured in Apple's App Store to celebrate Women's History Month.
The project, which was initially scoped as a single experience, is still being developed today with new graphic novel issues being released, continuous app updates, and even a First Woman Camp Experience!

The project was based around a story of Callie Rodriguez, the first female astronaut and person of color to set foot on the moon.
The story was centered around a beautiful graphic novel, which was fused with markers to be viewed in the native iOS App, launching descriptive AR objects to fully immersive environments, both of which made you feel like you were in space!

My role was as a UX designer with strong contributions to the overall strategy of the entire project.
I took part in most meetings, as the representative of the product team, to share our progress in the app.

Since the project was centered around the graphic novel, I designed the content so it was hierarchically structured,
the most important was the novel itself, and through that you could access the other experiences.
The graphic novel was a beautiful piece of art, and I wanted to make sure that it was the main focus of the app.

At about the same time as the user flow, and initial concepting of the UX, I started learning more about the team's UI direction
with an awareness of NASA's style guide. I suggested that the team lean into a more modern and minimalistic style, with a Helvetica typeface and bold colors.
The team was very receptive to the idea, and we started to explore the UI direction.

Since the content was distributive throughout the app, and a variety of different issues were intended on being created, it became hard to find certain content as it could be nested deep into an issue.
To solve the problem, we designed a homepage that would allow users to quickly access the content they were looking for and also allow them to discover new content.

One of the core features was the ability to view the graphic novel in AR. So, we focused on designing a straightforward way to initiate the AR experience from the graphic novel, all while ensuring they are accessible in their own right.

RT, Callie's homemade robot and space companion, was an essential part of the story. The team worked hard on creating lovable and funny animations that enabled the robot to express itself.
At the same time, I worked closely with Brent, the concept artist, and Pedro, the video producer, to understand how RT could best fit in the app. Just as he is Callie's guide through space,
he also helped guide the user through the app. From the onboarding to immersive explorations.

We designed the AR Objects UX so it could be easily accessed from any entry point.
Each of the AR experiences consisted of highly detailed NASA artifacts, like an astronaut suit, or the SLS Rocket.
At the same time as experiencing the object in one's environment, a user was able to tap different elements, placed in the style of word bubbles in order to learn more about that area of the technology.
Since the AR objects were tied into immersive environments, we provided a seamless transition to further exploration.

The immersive environments were the most exciting part of the project. And it was the first time I saw the potential of the Unity Game Engine.
We worked closely with the NASA team to understand the different environments that Callie would be exploring.
Through this, the user had the opportunity space environments and feel like they were really there!

I played a pivotal role in turning the environments, which would have been relatively static, into interactable playgrounds. In order to do this, I sat with the other designers and we concepted interactions that could enhance touch and exploration while moving around.
In addition, this also enhanced team morale because it gave everybody freedom to play around a bit in the environments, and taking a step back from the rigid requirements of the project.
Through these, we added the ability to learn more about the various technology of the Artemis program, through videos and articles.

In order to tie in the various components of the experience and encourage exploration throughout the app, we added challenges throughout the environments, which a user could complete to earn badges, and unlock the First Woman Specialist Badge.

Throughout the design and development of the project, we had many product reviews, both internally and with the NASA Team, so I created fully clickable prototypes, based on Sketch symbols, in order to fully experience the app, and its new features.
At the same time, the symbols made it easier to make changes, while keeping consistency across the experience.

Once we had a solid foundation in the native app, we started working on the WebAR experiences. We wanted to focus on RT as the entry point to the experience and we initially concepted a design where the user in could have
light voice interactions through microphone input in order to experience various space objects. At the time, however, the technology wasn't capable of handling responses to a wide range of input so we pivoted to focus directly on the AR objects.

I ended up designing wireframes for a novel UX, where RT presents space objects in an environment through a grid of images behind him.
When a user clicked on an image, object would fade into the centerpoint of the piece, where the user could interact. We also explored how the experience could change based on where the user entered the web experience from either, (a general link, the graphic novel, or for a specific object).

Lastly, we worked on the Microsite, which tied all of the components of the project together. The Graphic Novel, the Native App, and WebAR Experiences, were now all visualized through separate cards on a continuous scroll website.

With the help of our great Web Developer, Pedro, design and concept artists, the site came together beautifully through vibrant colors, large-scale parallax images - all of which really entranced the viewer into the story of Callie and RT.

We also designed interactive elements, such as the ability to read a digital version of the Graphic Novel,
and the opportunity for one to learn about their 'Career At NASA' through a fun quiz. Later on NASA also developed more activities including coloring books and the ability to 'Design a Crew Module' - all of which is hosted on the website!
The site was a great way to tie all of the components of the project together, and it was a great way to showcase the project to the world.

Overall the project was an amazing success, which was a result of the hard work of the entire team. The project continues to live on through more Graphic Novels, and in-app content, as I write this the 3rd Novel is in
